Storage release notes 2022-10-25.md (#260)
neondatabase/website: content/release-notes/2022-10-25.md

---
label: 'Storage'
---

### What's new

> - Compute: Add support of PostgreSQL 15.0 and its PostgreSQL extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compute: Added support of PostgreSQL 15.0 and its PostgreSQL extensions.
```

For information about supported extensions, see [Available PostgreSQL extensions](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/compatibility/#available-postgresql-extensions).

> - Compute: Disabled the `wal_log_hints` parameter, which is the default PostgreSQL setting. The Pageserver-related issue that required enabling `wal_log_hints`  has been addressed and enabling `wal_log_hints` is no longer necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compute: Disabled the `wal_log_hints` parameter, which is the default PostgreSQL setting. The Pageserver-related issue that required enabling `wal_log_hints`  has been addressed, and enabling `wal_log_hints` is no longer necessary.
```

---
label: 'Storage'
---

### What's new

> - Compute: Add support of PostgreSQL 15.0 and its PostgreSQL extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compute: Added support for PostgreSQL 15.0 and PostgreSQL 15 extensions supported by Neon. You can now select either PostgreSQL 14 or PostgreSQL 15 when creating a Neon project. 
```

Author: >You can now select either PostgreSQL 14 or PostgreSQL 15 when creating a Neon project. 

Technically, this is a part of Console release. Should we mention it twice?

Reviewer: Good point. No need to mention it twice. Let's leave that line as this:
"Added support for PostgreSQL 15.0 and PostgreSQL 15 extensions supported by Neon."

For information about supported extensions, see [Available PostgreSQL extensions](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/compatibility/#available-postgresql-extensions).

> - Compute: Fix creation of databases with trailing spaces in database name.

Reviewer: Can you describe what this issue was and where it occurred? Did the user supply a database name with trailing in the database creation dialog that caused some problem? What issue did it cause?

Author: > Did the user supply a database name with trailing in the database creation dialog that caused some problem?

Yes. here is the description
https://github.com/neondatabase/neon/pull/2652

Reviewer: Thanks. Suggested text below.

> - Compute: Disable `wal_log_hints` by default.

Reviewer: Why did we decide to disable wal_log_hints by default? Was it causing an issue?

Author: AFAIK, It was needed before for Neon to work correctly. Now it is not needed anymore and we change it back to PostgreSQL default.

Here is the PR https://github.com/neondatabase/neon/pull/2598

cc: @hlinnaka, @knizhnik

Reviewer: Thank you. Suggested text below:

> - Compute: Disable `wal_log_hints` by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Compute: Disabled the `wal_log_hints` parameter, which is the default PostgreSQL setting. The Pageserver-related issue that required enabling `wal_log_hints`  has been addressed and enabling `wal_log_hints` is no longer necessary.
```

> - Pageserver: Add timeline state field to TimelineInfo (returned by `timelines` internal management API endpoint).

Author: it improves observability and communication between modules, i.e. 

> Adjusts
> 
> - walreceiver to not to have any connections if timeline is not Active
> - remote storage sync to not to schedule uploads if timeline is Broken
> - not to create timelines if a tenant/timeline is broken
> -automatically switches timelines' states based on tenant state

PR https://github.com/neondatabase/neon/pull/2651

> - Pageserver: Add timeline state field to TimelineInfo (returned by `timelines` internal management API endpoint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pageserver: Added a timeline `state` field to the `TimelineInfo` struct that is returned by the `timelines` internal management API endpoint. Timeline `state` information improves observability and communication between Pageserver modules.
```

> - Pageserver: Add timeline state field to TimelineInfo (returned by `timelines` internal management API endpoint).

Reviewer: Thank you. Revised text below:

> - Pageserer: Merge 'local' and 'remote' parts of TimelineInfo into one struct in the internal management API.

Reviewer: Is there any functional change or is this just refactoring for better / cleaner code?

Author: I guess it's just a refactoring.
We don't expose this internal API anywhere, so we can remove this.

Reviewer: OK. Let's remove.

> - Pageserver: fix bug in handling of INSERT ON CONFLICT  speculative insertion WAL records.

Reviewer: What was the issue? How was INSERT ON CONFLICT handling not working?

> - Pageserver: fix bug in handling of INSERT ON CONFLICT  speculative insertion WAL records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pageserver: Fixed an `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT` handling issue for speculative Write-Ahead Log (WAL) record inserts. Under certain load conditions, records added with `INSERT ... ON CONFLICT` could be replayed incorrectly.
```

> - Pageserver: fix FSM and VM page reconstruction. This bug caused slow startup of compute nodes under certain workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pageserver: Fixed a Free Space Map (FSM) and Visibility Map (VM) page reconstruction issue that caused compute nodes to start slowly under certain workloads.
```
